Friends may tell you that you have your mother's nose or your father's eyes--although they don't mean that literally, of course. The transmission of traits from one generation tot he next is called inheritance, or heredity (from the Latic heres, heir). At the same time, sons and daughters are not identical copies of either parent or of their siblings. Along with inherited similarity, there is also variation. The sturdy of both heredity and inherited variation is called genetics. 

Parents endow their offspring with coded information in the form of hereditary units called geners. The genes we inherit from our mothers and fathers are our genetic link to our parents, and they account for family resemblances such as shared eye color or freckles. Our genes
Heredity / Inheritance 
    the transmission of traits from one generation to the next

Genetics
    study of heredity and inherited variationn. 

Homologous chromosomes are the duplicated chromosomes 

The cells created after meiosis 1 are haploids because they only carry one version of the allele. 
    
crossing over, the metaphase place, and separation are the different ways that 

Methods by which Mutation occurs. 
independent assortment
crossing over
random fertilization

Mendel reasoned that something was being passed on from generation to generation. We now call these genes. 

Inherits two alleles. That's how he understood that. He made the dduction without knowing what we know about chromosomes. Tha makes sense. Now we know about chromosomes and alleles. True breeding plants are all homozygous dominant and recessive. 

Mendel's segragation model accounts for the 3:1 ratio of the F2 generation.

phenotypic ratio of 3:1 is the usual result. 

when we are talking about a phenotype in terms of genetics, we assume that this includes physical apppearance, internal organs, phsychology etc.

We are dependent on our genetic background for some things, but the environment can affect you, also.

Take Diabetes for example. There is a chance that anyone would become a diabetic. Genetics can cause one to be more prone to diabetes.
