// CH 13 RAW

we are all the same and yet different. we are all the same and yet diverse. 
even between you and your brother and you are your sister. if you and your dad come together do you pop out again?
no.

we are all different, but we have the same structures

structures

every chromosome has a pecific set of geners in a specific location. The location of a spcificgene is called a locus. 

the sister chromatids are also called homologous chromosomes.

each chromatid has an allele. The pair of alleles in a gene locus is considered the gene.

in order to understand meiosis, we must understand how asexual reproduction occurs. 
    We are literally reproducinf offfspring who are identical, that is, they are clones of each other. 

    let's talk about why mammal do not use asexual reproduction. .Both of these types of reproduction has a pro and a con. The food thing about asexual reprduction is that when the envitonment is pefect, you do not want your children to change, so that they are perfect for the the environment. Asexual reproduction can also dbe done extremely quickly. e. coli divide themselves in 15 minute. 

some of the cons of asexual reproduction is the fact that you are making a clone. Whatever happens to you isdevestating to everyone. 

maybe 20 years go, before you were born, back in florida, the oranges were clones of each other. The juiciest oranges were the same. Thena fungus came and took over.
Usually a plant can protect itself with a fungicide. The farmers tried to give the trees fungicides. The trees were dying, and nothing could fix it. 

whenever there was a tree that was infected, they needed to kill the trees 3 feet away, so that the fungus was contained. 

unicellular organisms keep themselves small by doing asexual reproduction. because it takes less energy to asexually reproduce. 

SEXUAL REPRODUCTION. 
    main definition is "mixing genetic material"

the whole thing is. When you have a mix, that's when you have sexual reproduction. 

you can see why that would be a really good pro::   thank fod for diversity. Thank god for sexual reproduciton
you weren't alive when the aids epidemic happened. I remember, I worked next to a lab that worked with HIV virus. 

back then, we had nothing and people were dying, scientists would recieve phone calls asking, "please, do we have anything?"

a subset of the population did not develop AIDS, when infected with HIV. 

These people gave samples of blood and tissues, and we were able to figure things out

all cells are contained in a membtane, which only allows for certain things to come in. They ohly allow things to come in through a protein. There is a specific protein in out white blood cells. The virus was the perfect match to that white cell protein. Then, in comes the virus.

the genes that code for that receptor were different in certain people. the receptor had a slightly different shape, because of one amino acid. The peope would not develop aids. All of this happened, only because of diversity. if we didn't have that, that littlevirus could have wiped us out. that's why we have chosen sexual reproduction That's why we have chosen diversity.

we can look at chromosomes through karyotyping. 
    homologous pairs are when you have moms gene and dad's gene. we start with a diploid. then, we go into S phase of interphase, and we replicate. Then we have homologous pairs. They are the same genes, just different versions.

there are 22 pairs, and then the gametes. 
you are not missing anythng. Because you have an x chromosme, which is able to code all of your necessary genes. 

a male is a male, but we all, in a fetal stage, we all start as XX. The Y chromosome suppresses some genes that express in the x chrmoosme {

are there disadvantages to organisms which have no gender? are there advantages to that?
    probably. I am sure that we evolved in that for some reason. It does limit the nuer of individuals. Worms who are hemaphrodites reproduce thousands of eggs.

    separate that so that you know, regulate that a little bit better.

each pair of homologous chromosomes contains one chromosome from each paretnt. the diploid cell is 2n. 2 x 23 = 46'

22 chromosomes are autosomes, and the other are the sex chromosomes. 
    these are either X or Y. the sperm can carry X or Y. 

human females have XX
human males have YY. 

Meiosis iredues the number of chromosomes by half, so that when the offspring come together, there is a total of 2 pairs of chromosomes. 

sexual reproduction is the exchange of genetic material. It is not male/female dependent

some meiosis is cyclical. 
Some meiotic cycles have wacky branches

the diploid goes into meiosis 

Gametophyte is the multi-cellular organism which creates gametes.

Sporophyte is the multi-cellular organism which undergoes mitosis to become a gametophyte. 

Selveral seprs of meiossi closely resemble corresponding steps in mitosis. Meiosis, like mitosis, is preceded by interphase, which includes S phase (the duplication of chromosomes). However, this is followed by not one but two consecutive cell divisions, called meiosis I and meiosis II. these two divisions result in four daughter cells (rather than the two daughter cells of mitosis), each with only half as man chromosomes as the parent cell--one set, rather than two.

Stages of Meiosis

The overview of meiosis in Figure 13.7 shows, for a single pair of homologous chromosomes in a diploid cell, that both members of the pair are duplicated and the copies sorted into four haploid

Prophase I
    Centrosome movememnt, spindle formation, and nuclear envelope breakdown occur as in mitosis. Chromosomes condense progressively throughour prophase I.
    During early  prophase I, before the stage shown above, each pchromosome pairs with its hmolog, alighnes gene by gene, and crossing over occurs: The DNS molecules of nonsister chromatids arebroken (by proteins) and are rejoinec to each other.

