// ch 12 raw
  
you see all these, that are all vesicles. they are coming ina nd literally dumping what they need to build te cell wall. the vesicles, who brought it in are going to  fuse and become the cell wall on that side.

binary means two
fision means separate
so binary fission is 

of course prokaryotes are basically just clones of each other

here's the kicker. in porkaryotes, they have a single circular chromosome. Unlike animals, which have a chromosome 

prokaryotes have an origin of replication, which is the location in which the replication always begins. 

when prokaryotes do the replication, they can do so bidirectionally. 

so the mechanism is the sames. They have two leading and two lagging.

prokaryotes existed before eukaryotes. So mitosis probably evolved from binary fission. there are protists who exist which are right in between mitosis and binary fision

mitochondria and chloroplast have circular DNA. They do their own replication.

mitochondria follow our control and our regulation.

the fruquency of cell division is dependent upon the type of cell. they all have the same cycle, but different timing

Heterozygotes have a dominant and a recessive allele.   
    A test cross is a homozygous recessive test to see whether the parent is homozygous or heterozygous 

monohybrids are heterozygous. A monohybrid cross results in a 3:1 ratio. 

The reason why this will give you a 9:3:3:1. You will get a dihybrid when the two alleles are in the same chromosome.

Attached earlobes are rexessive. What genorypedo children have if one parent is homozygouse recessive for earlobes and homoygous dominant for hairline. and the other is homoyzgous dominanr for unattached earlobes and homozygous recessive for hairline?
ee HH
EE hh

if an individual from this cross reproduces with another of the same genotype, what are the chances that they will have a child with a straight hairline and attached earlobes?

EeHh 3/4 plus 3/4 = 9/16

Degrees of Dominance

Complete Dominance occurs when pheotypes of the hererozygore and dominant homoyzgore are identical
Incomplete dominance: the hpenotype of F1 hybrids is somewhere between the phenotypes of the two parental varieties
Codominance: two dominant alletes affect the phenotype on separate, distinguishable ways

Pleiotropy is the understanding that most genes have multiple phenotypic effects. 

Epistasis: a gene at one locus alters the phenotypic expression of a gene at a second locus.
    In many mice, coat color is dependent on two separate genes. 

You can see that mendelian genetics is not going to go with this.

Polygenic inheritance
    An addiditive effect of two or more genes on a singly phenotype
Quantitative characters
    those that vary inthe population along a continuum
Skin color is like this

Norm of Reactionis the phenotpic range of a genotype influenced by the environment. 
    Hydrangea flowers are red in acidic environment, and blue in alkaline
