Oportunity for social media and research internship through technical writing assignments
    provides certificates and resume buildling

Christopher Morrison - founder and Director of Care Highway International

    Irish upbringing with politically active Irish Parents
    grew up going to demonstrations for different political efforts

    Bosnian War - Leader died and the region went to war. 
    
    Studied education and social work during the Bosnian war. 
        with an aim to bring aid to the Bosnian region
        failed because he could not align himself with some of the attitudes and expressions
    
    When something like this happens, you have 4 options:
        1. Don't do anything
        2. Work for a big organization
        3. Work for a small organization
        4. Start your own organization

    Chris started his own.

    Ideology and focus regarding doing something of consequence

    Did not need to leave the country to make something of consequence.

    Witnessed Sarajevo joining the war, and felt he needed to go NOW

    The system is daunting. It is difficult to feel as though my voice matters
        Find your tone and find your voice so that others don't just listen to
        the tone of your voice, but actually the subject matter

    Created a process to increase quality of life
        plan to return to the war, haitus in Sweden. Writing a paper.
        Slept little within a few weeks. Theorized about changing the world
        pitched the option to join to his peers in college, and they were keen to join
        
        the morale in Bosnia was bad. They needed food and medicine. 
        Care Highway was a way to bring aid to these people.
        Branding made it possible to seem credible

        Chris elevator speeched some guy at the logistics office. 
        he was given the truck to bring the care packages
        "Family to Family" (sent letters from families to families in Bosnia)

        Children's Home Kericho
            orphanage in which children still have connection to their parents. 

        British Parliament awarded a title from the house of Lords in England
            Chris is a Lord or something (duke?)

How do you help the homeless???? (my question)
        Maslow's Heirarchy of need
            write down which needs are met. 
            identifiy the needs - see what time they're there, be there too
            shaving and cleaning supplies?
            Find out what everyone else is doing first, so that you don't duplicate a service

As a quality writer
    write documents and brochures and pamphlets for the non-profit to raise awareness
    give back with your skills by offering a free service
    leverage resources which are already available

Barcelona Initiative
    Art therapy for the Ukrainian children coming through
        Pays for the facility, supplies, and staff
    building beds in Warsaw

Focus on the things which you can help with. 

DON'T EXPECT ANY GRATITUDE. - YOU ARE ONLY SOLVING 1 OF 50 PROBLEMS

No salary for Chris - How does he eat? who buys his clothes?


Where is the Children's home? 
Karicho
How far is the Children's Home from Kibera? 
5 hours or 12 hours
How often do you work in Kibera? 
ongoing
What do you do in Kibera?
afterschool program - used to have clinics

























































































I'm interested in giving, what does that take? 



Contact:
    Facebook @CareHighway
    Insta: @CareHighwayInternational
    Twitter: @Care_Highway
